### EBS

**EBS** is elastic block storage which is a network drive that you can attach to instances while they run, so you keep the data if the instance is terminated or if you want to store data and persist data. You can attach the EBS volume and then attach it to a different volume so you keep the same data between instances. EBSs are locked to availability zones. You cannot transfer it between the data centers, you can move it by taking a snapshot and then copy the data to another AZ.EBS they have a provision capacity(size and IOPS).  

You can attach multiple volumes to the same instance. you have EBS types such SSD, HDD and the price differs. GP2 are the avg which are cheap and SSDs. You can increase EBS capacity at any time. You can take snapshots to backup data or to transfer between AZ. You can schedule snapshots. You can create an EBS encryption, all snapshots are encrypted. The data between EBS and the instance is transferred encrypted. All volumes created from snapshots are encrypted. Data is encrypted at rest and in flight, it has slow latency. Copying an unencrypted snapshots forces encryption automatically.  

Some EC2 instances do not have EBS, they use instance store, which means that the root volume is attach to physical drive, not network like EBS, you get better performance but you lose the data on termination and you cannot resize, also backups must be handled by the user. EBS backed are recommended unless you really need the performance. Each EBS volume can be attach to just one instance and one instance can have many volumes. EBS are locked to the AZ, you can migrate by taking a snapshot and copying it. Snapshots use IO and impact performance, take snapshots when the load is low. Although EBS volumes are persisted and you can attach/detach them from instances, by default the EBS volume will be terminated with the instance, you need to click the check box during creation to tell AWS not to terminate the volume.
